 Well, you fucking got it. Dude, you're steaming up. Bro, you're boring. Haven't you been hit in the face for a long time?
Okay, let's have a chat. Well, let's think about our sorrowful affairs. What are you interested in?
Okay, let's have a chat
A-a-a-a-a-a!!!
Fuck them, boys!
Wali petosa!
Take out the bull!
Fuck you all!! I
'll fuck you!! We'll
bury you, bitch!
Vali attiv!
Allya, get rid of the reptiles!
Aah, shcha we are to you, half-finished Arabs!
Fuck off!
I don't have time to talk.
Get the fuck out of here, bro!
What are you looking at? Haven't you been hit in the neck for a long time?
Well, let's go.
Dude, get out of my sight
Get out of here
Don't you get it? Get the fuck out of here
Get it, bitch!
On you, on!
Here, hawai, bitch!
Catch it, you faggot!
Here, you asshole!
Ot, bitch!
In short, Marked, I saved you and I won't play noble: you complete a couple of tasks for me — and we are even. At the same time, we'll see how quickly your head clears up after the amnesia. And I'll try to find out about your topic. Fuck knows, why the hell did you give up this Shooter, but I don't meddle in other people's affairs, if you want to kill, then there is something for it ... Out of
breath
You deserve it, asshole
You jumped up, you bastard! I jumped up and down.
You lying there, you bastard? That's right, a dog's death is a dog's death.
Ate a bullet? Scumbag..
Serves you right, chicken!
Bitch! Ha-ha-ha!
To break them in the anomaly, brutes
Rest in peace, man..
Well rest in peace
What a freak
Sho, she's dead, you brute
There will be such a
M-yes. Apparently, fate is like this
Well, there's not another one
I knew that sooner or later he would jump up
Ay, blyaaya!
Ay, your.. A.. Khe..
Pats-tsa-nyy..
Mlyayaya.. n.. a...
Blaaaa..
Ahhh ...
oh-yoy..oh ...
come in, come in from the side
Come on, come on!
We take him warm!
Don't get nervous, guys, we're going around!!

Get out, get him out!
Come on, chiki-kiki, in the king!

This is your personal PDA. Useful stuff that helps you not to die in the Zone, and if you die, then at least others will know how and where, heh-heh-heh...

They copied us! Nix!
Caspani!
Sha, kipesh went!
Fraera was knocked down
Haa, look who's rolling the wheels towards us
Oh-ba, Leaver got out
I have no more strength, I need to rest
You should have picked up some more cans…
What are you, cormorant?
I'll rip your head off, bitch
Hana to you, freak

Hello, brother
Shucher, guys!
A grenade!
Grenade, boys!
Hey, bro
Hey, look at me
Tha's kind of fucked up somehow
What was that?
Did you hear that?
Quiet! Something's making a noise
Did something fall?
Good hunting, stalker! Good hunting, stalker!
Quiet!
There's someone here
Who's here?
Stop, I'll shoot!
Help me, brother!
Help me, bra-at!!
Give me the first aid kit, please
Ay, yo-mae ...
hit, hit, bitches..
Ay.. Drawbar those in the mouth..
The bro was hooked
Guys, we have a wounded man
Ely-paly, I have right now in nature with a hunger baby in knots will be tied
The mounds che, they sound fine. They sit with their mobiles, they command them
I'm sick of everything in nature, these show-offs are still fraersky, we're like ...
and what I got here, I would have satchkoval myself in the area..
Nature. Yop, dry your clothes..
Yes, I called this zone, I want to go to the city

Hop-stop, we came around the corner..
Aaay, fuck ...
Soulful yawn (:
Sniff
He coughed..
Anyways, like this
Yes, bro, but here's what else I heard
Well, what, guys, like a joke

No, well, you're just a comedian, well, you're finally

Hold on, buddy, right now everything will be a bundle
You're a real sucker, bro! So expose yourself specifically

Hide the bagpipes, then we'll talk
Hide your weapons if you want to talk
Put away your weapons, then we'll talk
Well, you're awesome, the barrel in the face pokes and wants to communicate
Let's put the weapons behind our backs, then we'll talk
There's a lot of shit going on here

Hey, buddy, don't shoot me!
Get off me, you creep!

Dizzy.. Everything is spinning around..
Why is it so dark?.

"Hey, Mark, do you know why the carousel is the fastest way to get around?"
"No," I said.
"Because after hitting it, one foot is here, the other is there!"
Pa-da-boom!
- Yeah.
How many Petrosyan and Zadornov in me do not flounder, and I can not wake up a sullen partner in the morning.
"Just so you can sneeze!" I can't walk in complete silence, as if I were following a funeral escort!
"Don't croak. Oh, you Taipan, a godsend for a spy. Woman, one word.
- Let's not do this. I already get fifty text messages a day, but I don't have time to delete them! This is what forgetfulness means in our time... Olonovka infection...
— Okay, don't whine. No one will touch you with your reflexes of an Afghan veteran. And I take it you want my authoritative opinion on what happened yesterday.".. "incident".
— That's it! (Finally, for your soul, I got it!) Come on, tell me your thoughts!
"Man, I don't know...

Everything could have gone on quite ordinary and familiar, if I hadn't heard it with my musical ear... the roar of the engine.
"Someone's coming, — I muttered, looking around. Yeah, there's dust swirling in the distance.
"I see," the Marked Man said, following my gaze. "Looks like it's heading our way."
— In the Zone, it turns out that you can move not only by foot?

— I have a lot to do with you, so I suggest we start right now."
— You're really after me, aren't you?" Interesting girls dance... Okay. Unfortunately, we don't have a conference table, so we settle down somewhere here, under the trees.
— I will never understand, whether you are joking, or you are serious ... Taking
out of a tarpaulin-covered stroller an AK of some model that is still unknown to me, but definitely new (here people live! I even got the "Obokan" as a gift!), Degtyarev came up to us.
"Well, what do you say?" "What is it?" asked the Marked One, sitting down on all fours under a perennial fir tree. I sat next to her in the lotus position.
"First of all, I have a question for you," Alexander muttered, sitting down in front of us, and suddenly blurted out so sharply that my ears popped.: What the hell was going on at the "Sprout" that the "svobodovtsy" now want and chest wheel, and from the "Debt" not a word or a spirit?!
— If anything, the "dolgovtsy" asked for it, it's not my fault!
"Well, that's not the point. Just tell me what happened.
— Well, it was like this: somewhere between the Dump and the Cordon, an expedition was going to go east. The places there are untouched, there is a place to roam. The idea belongs to "Freedom", the neutrals supported it.
— Did you go without scientists or something?



— I just don't understand why — that's what I'm curious about."
— And then, so that all the riches of the Zone, from forests to artifacts, flow into the hands of this elite. They're too greedy, the bastards. At that time, they seemed to be the most promising group of "Debt". All ex-military or trained as trained shepherds, the discipline of the ogo-go and the device is clear. That's it. One problem — Voronin. It is useless to talk to him on such a topic. He is a principled man. The zone must be destroyed, and that's it, do not get under your arm! Well, then these conspirators decided to give a new commander to the "Duty", and with it a new device. You, the Marked One, remember what happened three years ago. Voronin went to the next operation to clean up the lair of mutants. When the shooting came to an end, he was killed with a precise shot to the head. The killer, no matter how hard they tried, was not found. And then, as if by order, Marchenko appeared with his group of "chain dogs", allegedly sent as a backup to the group from the state. It is strange that the "dolgovtsy" immediately did not smell a trick...
tov darkness ran up! Lukash gave the order to cut the animals, and off she went! Tan, how long did the fight last approximately?

"I don't know, to be honest. I've looked at all the camps, but no leads. Except for the traces of mutant raids. They've all been eaten, clean! But that's not the most interesting part. I wandered around the Perimeter, and... You know, there are places where the authorities were too lazy to put concrete walls and only stretched a metal grid? There's no one running around from mutants, but beginners make loopholes and pass them. Now, there's a wall of anomalies all along the fence! Don't pass don't pass!

"The dog knows him." Although this may be the case. The X-ovks were carefully camouflaged. Maybe there's one nearby, and we just went through the emergency exit.
"By the way, can you tell me what kind of labs these are?" I've heard something about them.
— These labs were built before the Second Explosion. They conducted experiments on the creation of universal soldiers, chemical weapons... Somehow, in general, so. After the Explosion in the sixth year, the laboratories were depopulated, and the unsuccessful results of the experiments were released. I think you have already realized that these are mutants.
"Eh, what kind of creature is a human being? He always digs a hole for himself...
- Well, who knew that instead of a telepathic fighter, a controller would turn out? Obmishurilis scientists. In vain only so many people were killed... In
front of us again appeared a narrow fork, in the very center of which a column of dust rose up.
- "Springboard" or something? The Marked Man raised his eyebrows.
— What's the difference, - muttered Degtyarev, looking around the three aisles. - The main thing is not to step on it... The one-and-AK... I suggest we split up. One person in the corridor.
"Yeah, first the expedition is divided into people, and then into components," I muttered, looking around. I had no desire to climb into any of the passageways.
— You, the main thing, yell louder, so that we know that you need to be saved (gad). We move away about two hundred meters from the fork, then go back and wait for the others. Let's go.

"I'll get to the guys right now, and we'll deal with him quickly!»
Yeah, fuck it! The Marked One told me: watch your step! But no! Don't think I didn't stumble. Realizing that the prey was about to run away, sosych jumped forward and tried to grab it, but he did not calculate it a little, and a huge paw caught me on the legs. It is clear that when both my hind limbs jerked back, I can not run normally, and therefore, by inertia, I flew forward and somersaulted over my head a couple of times. Determined to face death in battle, I turned on my back and drew my knife. I just didn't have time to load the machine gun, as the bloodsucker was already flying at me.
- TANYA!!!

Sosych's claws sliced through the air in front of my nose, and in the next second, the monster was thrown up by an unknown force at a very high speed, where the black and desperately screaming creature was torn to pieces. Bits of meat and blood flew at me from above... Is it worth shouting, or is it better not to?..
- Tanya!!! hands grabbed my shoulders and yanked me back. Above me loomed the two fucking faces of Alexander and the Marked One, who had just pulled me to my feet.
— What was that just now?" I asked, looking at both of them with bulging eyes. This was unnecessary, since my face was already like a grotesque mask due to the streaks of blood and the blood-sucking blood that was sliding down.
— Are you asking me?" - I think things are going well, my partner's nerves are starting to give out. "You did.".. To the carousel... And sosic... Why?!
— What "carousel"?
— Tanya, you just got into an anomaly, but it did not react to you, but the bloodsucker was torn to the dog's dick!
"An anomaly?".. Is it really true?
"Want to check it out?"
"No," I said.
"Colonel, what are you doing?"
At this time, Degtyarev picked up a small stone from the ground and threw it into the charged anomaly. As expected, the garbage can flew up under the dirty ceiling and scattered in a heap of crumbs.
— I understand that the version with the slackness of the anomaly and Tanya's small weight has failed, — he said, watching the stone crumb waltz.

- I don't know. The anomaly saved you from the black bloodsucker... You either have a very strong guardian angel, or... Or I don't know what I need to know. What kind of business is going on in the Zone, I do not understand! It's not just luck anymore. You have something else, stronger than the usual pruhi.
"Looks like it."..
- Nothing, - the stalker put his hand on my shoulder — - we'll figure it out. Now let's go to the fire.
***


Tanya was sleeping against the far wall of the bunker. The blood from her face was washed away by the rainwater drawn by the Marked One. The remains of it were splashing softly in the bottom of the pot next to the girl.
The Marked man sat by the fire, lost in thought. While cleaning his" one hundred and fourth " AK, Alexander noticed that his friend occasionally looked at the peacefully sleeping girl. All right, if she was asleep, but why stare at her like that? Although maybe it wasn't the legend stalker who was staring at her, but... well, let it be on his conscience. Degtyarev is not used to prying into people with unnecessary questions. A personal matter for that and personal. But it's a pain in the ass, isn't it?.. Well, you can do it once!
— Why did you agree to go with her?"
The stalker in the SEVA turned slowly toward his friend.

-
Well, yes, you told me about the trip on the overpass. You were lucky with the group then-simple as instructions for cooking pasta. Okay, I'll go to bed.
— You don't seem to know how to sleep at all!"
— Well, I snore occasionally. And in general, I said that to the side position, and not to sleep. All, get off of me
And lay down. On his side and with his back to the fire. And the rain drummed down from above...



I do not understand.. I don't understand anything..
Pancake. Now I will glow at night
Damn it, I'm in the mud. If only I could get the antirad..
That's bullshit, you idiot, up to your ears in the hearth
So. It is necessary to pour vodka, but to lie down a little
Well, you're a mold, you'd still tell about Stirlitz
Ha-ha, funny, I can't do it
Uh, in nature, it takes for the soul..
Yes, cupcake, if I played on the kich like that, I would have sung it long ago
Not, in kind, a clean Sawmill

"Are you kidding me?" He yelled at you the longest! And what the hell did he call you?.. Geez, whatever... "death stalker," huh?
"I was surprised myself. Whatever they called me, the good thing was driving me, but this was the first time. No, well, yes, I'm a notable killer. There was a case, a lot of people killed, but mostly those who needed to be killed by all the laws of morality. Everything has already been put on the right here.
— Were there many of them?"
— I have them, what do you think? Okay, if from a machine gun, but I also threw grenades, and then someone will be lucky. I only worry about his words about how I came to the Zone. Ever since I've been poking around, back when I came in the second time...

I'm an utter optimist, I know!
"Yeah, we'll see how this' fun ' ends." I don't have much luck with my partners, so don't moan if you stretch your legs, you asked for it!
- Killjoy!
— We're not like that. Life is like this... But who were the two men he was talking about?.. In general, my liver can smell it, it will be added to our regiment.
"Very well! You are welcome! Good arrows do not hurt!
— And it's not a fact that they are good.
- Yes, you have no need to break the battle settings! Let's break through! Who can really stop the stalker-legend who went all the way to the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and returned from it alive, and the first woman in the Zone?! Nobody and nothing!
- Well, you say, of course!
- Don't break my inspired mood!



And we didn't have anything to play on when we were young
Lavender, mountain lavender..
No, no, it's not a fucking thing, you're driving
No, bro, I'll pass
Well? Where have you been hiding? Come
out, we'll find you anyway

Well, let's see who we have here?
Hey, boy, now you're going to cluck
We'll give you some blood right now.




    