Power Stone gives the wielder super strength.
Soul Stone gives the ability to manipulate the soul and resurrect the dead.
Time Stone gives the power to control time.
Mind Stone gives the power to control minds.
Aether is the Reality Stone. Unlike other stones, this is in the form of a viscous liquid and changes shape. It gives the wielder the power to control realities.
A long time before the beginning of the first Captain America movie, a relic called the Tesseract made its way to Earth. The best guess would be that Odin, Thor’s father, King of Asgard, left it on Earth for safekeeping. This contains the Space Stone (which gives the power to create wormholes) but we’ll refer to it as the Tesseract.
A typical set of words you will hear in many of the films are:
S.H.I.E.L.D – Supreme Headquarters, International Espionage, and Law-Enforcement Division. Basically, the good guys.
Hydra – A terrorist organization who are against the free world, the bad guys.
In 1942, Steve Rogers is a small skinny dude, his close buddy is Bucky. Due to his physicality, Rogers is rejected for the World War II military but is persistent. Dr. Abraham Erskine, head of the Super Soldier program, overhears Rogers and deems him a suitable candidate because of his selfless nature. Rogers is ultimately picked for the program and becomes tall, muscular, super strong, agile .. the works. A while before this, a Nazi officer, Johann Schmidt (also a Hydra operative), had gone through an imperfect version of the Super Soldier program.
Schmidt get his hands on the Tesseract. He intends to harness its powers to build weapons and destroy all of America. Rogers is now called Captain America (or Cap). The lead engineer, Howard Stark (Tony Stark’s dad), gives him a Vibranium shield. Schmidt, whose plans are foiled by Cap, reveals that his face was merely a mask covering his Red Skull (which is what he calls himself).
In one of the anti-Hydra missions on a train, Bucky falls to his apparent death (no he doesn’t die, he comes back in Winter Soldier). In the climax of the film, Cap gets on board Red Skull’s plane which is armed with the Tesseract weapon. Through the course of their showdown, Red Skull touches the Tesseract which opens a wormhole and sucks him through (he doesn’t die, Red Skull returns in Infinity War). The Tesseract falls into the ocean, and Captain America sacrifices himself by crashing the plane in the Arctic. He doesn’t die, he gets cryogenically frozen. Howard Stark retrieves the Tesseract but is unable to find Cap. Howard eventually becomes one of the founding members of S.H.I.E.L.D. Cap remains frozen for 70 years.
Nick Fury talks to Captain America, who has been asleep for 70 years, about the Avenger’s initiative.
Years after Captain America’s plane crash, Howard continues to test on the Tesseract to learn more about it. Eventually, Project Pegasus is created by S.H.I.E.L.D to deal solely with studying the Tesseract. Over time, a Kree by the name of Mar-Vell somehow infiltrates S.H.I.E.L.D under the name of Dr. Wendy Lawson. She becomes the head of Project Pegasus and relocates the Tesseract to her secret lab in space. She continues to work as part of Project Pegasus to create a Light-Speed Engine. Though she is a Kree she doesn’t approve of her people obliterating the Skrulls (a race of shape-shifters). She wants to hand the Skrulls the Light-Speed Engine so they can escape. She’s also secretly stowed away a bunch of Skrulls in her Space Lab. Before she can complete her work, a Kree squadron, lead by Yon-Rogg, finds her in 1989.
Mar-Vell has asked a young pilot, Carol Danvers, to accompany her and the two of them get shot down. This plane has a Jet Engine that Mar-Vell has built, and this is powered by the Tesseract (which is still safe in space). Yon-Rogg kills Mar-Vell. Carol shoots and blows up the jet engine. Somehow, she ends up absorbing all the energy from the explosion. Given the closest thing to the Light-Speed Engine has been blown up, Yon-Rogg takes Carol with him as she might be the key to figuring out the Engine. The Kree use Carol’s amnesia to make her believe she is a Kree too. To keep her powers at bay, they put an inhibitor on her. Six years pass.
In one of the missions in 1995, Carol is captured by the Skrulls who are trying to get to the location of the Secret Lab. Long story short, Carol ends up on Earth, runs into a young Nick Fury, finds the lab, remembers her Earth life, realizes the Skrulls are good, gets the Tesseract (which is gobbled by an alien cat), removes her inhibitor, unleashes her full powers, takes down all of the Kree, and set the Skrulls free. The exotic cat scratches Nick Fury’s eye causing him to lose it, and he gets his famous eye patch. Carol gives Nick Fury a pager-on-steroids which he is to use to call out to her only in case of a vital emergency.
The alien cat spits up the Tesseract. This is how S.H.I.E.L.D repossess the Tesseract after it has been in Mar Vell’s secret lab. It technically never left S.H.I.E.L.D, it was always part of Project Pegasus.
Tony Stark eventually inherits his father’s company. Over the years, Stark Industries has been manufacturing and supplying weapons across the world. Obadiah Stane, a senior personnel in the company, has been illegally trafficking weapons. In one of Tony’s demonstrations of the Jerico missile, he’s captured by terrorists. In the process, Tony is wounded in the chest by shrapnel shards from the explosion. In the cave, where Tony is kept, is another captive, Dr. Yinsen, who implants an electromagnet into Tony’s chest to keep the shards out of his heart. The terrorists demand that Tony builds them missiles, but Tony and Yinsen build an armored suit powered by an arc reactor. Yinsen sacrifices himself and Tony blows his way out destroying the terrorist camp.
Tony gets found by his friend Colonel James Rhodes and begins work on a more advanced suit powered by a more powerful arc reactor. He also announces that Stark Industries will stop manufacturing weapons which annoys Stane. Tony finds out about Stane and flies off to Afghanistan to blow up the bad guys who have his guns. We’re introduced to Tony’s secretary, Pepper Potts, who hacks into the company’s database to locate all illegal shipments. She also informs S.H.I.E.L.D’s agent Phil Coulson about Stane’s activities. Stane reverse engineers a new suite for himself and steals Tony’s arc leaving him to die. Tony manages to get to his old arc reactor. We then have a final showdown between Tony (who’s now the Iron Man) and Stane. Tony has Pepper overload the giant arc reactor powering his building which causes a surge that consumes Stane. The next day, Tony announces to the world that he is the Iron Man.
Nick Fury visits Tony to talk about the Avengers Initiative.
While not shown in this film, Dr. Bruce Banner is subject to gamma radiations in an experiment gone wrong. As a result, when Bruce is angry, he transforms into the Hulk. In this film, Bruce is lying low in Brazil, working in a bottling plant. But due to a small cut on his hands, his blood happens to get into one of the bottles. This bottle eventually causes a death by gamma poisoning and is traced back to Bruce. General Ross and Emil Blonsky want to weaponize the Hulk and hence try to capture Bruce. But they lose to the Hulk. Blonsky is initially given a small dose of the low-power super-soldier serum, this makes him stronger and gives him healing powers, but he begins losing his mind. After multiple defeats at the hands of the hulk, Blonsky finally gets Banner’s blood injected into him. The combination of the super-soldier serum and the infected gamma blood transforms Blonsky into a mindless beast – Abomination. The Hulk battles the Abomination and kills him. After this, Bruce stays in British Columbia and slowly learns to turn into the Hulk in a controlled manner.
Tony Stark visits General Ross to talk about the Avengers Initiative.
While the arc reactor, that Tony made, powers his suit, it’s not his invention. Many years back his father, Howard, and a Russian scientist, Anton Vanko, invented it. Anton tried to sell it for profit and is deported back home. Ivan, Anton’s son, happens to see the Iron Man powered by his father arc and wants revenge. Ivan begins building a mini arc reactor based weapon. At a Grand Prix, Ivan attacks Tony who uses his portable suit to become Iron Man and defeats Ivan. Seeing this event, Justin Hammer, a Start Industry rival, stages Ivan’s death and gets him to build armored suits.
Tony’s arc reactor uses a Palladium core, and this is slowly poisoning him and will kill him soon. As a result, Tony makes Pepper the CEO of his company and gets a new assistant, Natasha. This is Agent Natasha Romanoff (Black Widow), undercover, who is assessing Tony. Nick Fury meets Tony and says that he knew Howard Stark back in the day and hands Tony some of Howard’s old material. In the 3-D hologram, Tony discovers a piece of hidden information for a new element – it’s fair to assume that Howard Stark found this by experimenting with the Tesseract that hosts the Space Stone. Tony synthesizes this element with the help of his computer J.A.R.V.I.S. This new element removes the need for Palladium. Meanwhile, Ivan takes remote control of all of Justin’s drones and wreaks havoc. Rhodes and Iron Man fight them off and defeat Ivan, who detonates the drones and himself.
Agent Phil Coulson, from S.H.I.E.L.D, reports that a massive hammer has been discovered at the bottom of a crater in New Mexico. Yes, Thor’s hammer.
Thor is the son of Odin (king of Asgard) and an arrogant God. Loki is this brother. For rupturing the truce between Asgard and Jotunheim, Odin exiles Thor to Earth after stripping him off all the Godly powers. Thor’s hammer, the source of his power, is enchanted such that only the worthy can wield it. Thor gets separated from his hammer. While the hammer is found by S.H.I.E.L.D, Thor is found by Dr. Jane Foster and Dr. Erik Selvig. Thor manages to get to the hammer but is unable to lift it because he’s not worthy. Back in Asgard, Loki finds out that he’s adopted. While Odin enters his deep slumber, Loki takes over the throne. Thor’s friends don’t like this and convince the gatekeeper of the Bifröst (rainbow bridge transportation thingy), Heimdall, to send them to Earth. Loki gets to know of this and sends the Destroyer (an indestructible metallic being thingy) to Earth to kill Thor.
The Destroyer defeats Thor’s friends, but he offers himself as a sacrifice and is struck. Because of his worthy actions, Thor’s hammer returns to him. Thor destroys the Destroyer and heads back to Asgard to confront Loki. The two of them fight, and Thor blows up the Bifröst bridge so that no one can enter Asgard and invade it. Odin awakens and stops Thor and Loki from falling into the emptiness under the bridge. Loki commits suicide by letting himself fall off (no he doesn’t die, he returns in The Avengers). Thor and Odin reconcile, but Thor is stuck on Asgard. Back on Earth, Jane is looking for a way to get to Thor.
Nick Fury brings Dr. Selvig to see the Tesseract and says he would like him to take over Project Pegasus. By now, Loki has figured out that the Tesseract is with S.H.I.E.L.D and has taken control of Dr. Selvig’s mind. We can see Loki urging Selvig to agree, and he does. Now, though the scene appears at the end, this event happens right in the middle of the film.
Loki, who faked his death, makes a deal with the leader of a race called Chitauri. Loki is offered an army in exchange for the Tesseract (Space Stone) that’s on Earth. It’s important to know that Thanos is the one who’s firing the shots here. Via the Chitauri, Thanos has given Loki a mighty Sceptre to aid him in the mission of getting the Tesseract. This Sceptre contains the Mind Stone, but no one knows about this but Thanos. Loki is able to control minds using the Sceptre.
The film begins with Loki taking over Dr. Selvig and Hawk-Eye’s minds and stealing the Tesseract from Nick Fury. Natasha goes to India looking for Bruce Banner because the Tesseract is giving out gamma radiations which she’s hoping Bruce can trace. Long story short, Loki uses the Tesseract to open a portal and the Chitauri attack. Iron Man, Captain America, Thor, Hulk, Hawk-Eye, and Natasha team together as the Avengers and fight off the aliens. Leaders of Earth decide the best way to end the invasion is to blow up New York and launch a nuke. Iron Man deflects this missile through the worm-hole and blows up the Chitauri mothership. Dr. Selvig and Natasha use the Sceptre to close the portal (one Infinity Stone vs. another, but no one knows about these stones yet). Iron Man falls back through the closing portal just in time, and Hulk grabs him midway. Thor takes Loki and the Tesseract back to Asgard. The Scepter is confiscated by S.H.I.E.L.D.
We’re shown the leader of the Chitauri telling Thanos that they failed to conquer Earth. Thanos smiles meaning to say “challenge accepted”.
Since the episode of the alien invasion in Avengers, Tony has been having panic attacks. Aldrich Killian, once a disabled scientist who was rejected by Tony for an idea around healing crippling injuries, is the villain in this film. Aldrich’s treatment, called Extremis, is unstable. While it temporarily cures the subject, it also causes them to explode eventually. To cover up these explosions, Aldrich creates a terrorist by the name Mandarin and gives it the face of an aspiring British actor. He makes it appear like Mandarin has been blowing up stuff.
Long story short, Aldrich blows up Tony’s home, kidnaps Pepper, injects her with Extremis so that Tony would be forced to fix the flaw, gets into a brawl with everybody, has a showdown with the Iron Man and finally gets blown up by a super-powered Pepper. Tony stabilizes the effects of Extremis inside of Pepper Pots. Now, she will not explode, but it’s not mentioned if she has retained any of her superpowers.
When the universe was dark, a race called the Dark Elves ruled. Then came the Light, and they lost their power. Malekith, the ruler of the Dark Elves, wants to use the Aether (Reality Stone) and throw the world back into darkness. Now, there is an event that aligns all the nine realms together once every 5000 years. It’ s called Convergence. Malekith tries to use the Aether to darken the world in a previous convergence, but is stopped by Thor’s granddad. Hence Malekith puts himself and few other Dark Elves in a state of hibernation. In the present day, as the next convergence approaches, portals begin to randomly appear in the 9 realms.
Jane goes to investigate one such portal and gets sucked into the realm where the Aether has been kept hidden from Malekith. Jane activates the Aether by mistake, and it enters her. This awakens Malekith and the other hibernating Dark Elves. The Aether begins to kill Jane because of its power. Long story short – Thor takes Jane to Asgard, Malekith attacks Asgard to get Jane, Thor’s mother dies protecting Jane, Loki joins forces with Thor to avenge his mother, Loki tricks Malekith by bringing Thor and Jane as his prisoners, Malekith extracts the Aether from Jane, Loki dies (no he doesn’t, Loki is faking it again, he’ll be back in the end), Thor and Malekith fight through the various portals, Thor finally kills Malekith. In the end, Loki is posing as Odin and ruling Asgard. The real Odin is on Earth, we’ll get to that in Ragnarok.
The Dark World: Post Credit Scene
We’re shown the Asgardians giving the Aether to a person called the Collector stating that it’s not a good idea to keep two Infinity Stones so close to each other. The Asgardians are already holding the Tesseract (Space Stone) in their protection.
This film is about the return of Bucky, Cap’s old friend. After he falls off the train (in the first Captain America film), he’s captured by Hydra and is brain-washed and is given instructions to take down S.H.I.E.L.D. We also learn that S.H.I.E.L.D has been infiltrated by Hydra right from its inception. The present executive in S.H.I.E.L.D who is a Hydra operative is Alexander Pierce. Hydra is using three S.H.I.E.L.D helicarriers to predict potential threats to Hydra and plans to eliminate them. Nick, Natasha, Captain America and Falcon (Sam Wilson) join forces to stop Hydra and the Winter Soldier.
Cap is able to use electronic chips to override all the helicarriers. He fights Bucky but doesn’t want to kill him. The override causes the helicarriers to fire at each other, and they crash. Cap falls into the river below. Bucky pulls Cap out of the river before running into the woods, indicating that the Hydra mind-control is wearing off.
The Winter Soldier: Post Credit Scene
The Sceptre, which is with S.H.I.E.L.D, has been extracted by Baron Wolfgang von Strucker who is a Hydra agent. This is a result of S.H.I.E.L.D being infiltrated by Hydra. The Sceptre’s powers have been used to create mutants for Hydra’s usage – Peter (with super speed) and Wanda (with telekinesis).
This film introduces us to a set of new characters. Peter Quill – a half human, half alien who is raised by Yondu. Gamora and Nebula, the adopted daughters of Thanos (they don’t like each other). Rocket Raccoon, a talking raccoon who’s a sharp technician and engineer. Groot, a powerful tree creature who’s vocabulary consists of “I am Groot”. Groot and Rocket are bounty hunters. Drax, a powerful being whose family was killed by Ronan and Thanos.
Quill gets his hands on a powerful orb, the Power Stone. Gamora and Nebula are sent to retrieve it while Rocket and Groot go after him for the bounty. Rocket, Groot, Quill, and Gamora are arrested, and in the Nova Corp prison, they run into Drax. The five of them form a team and fight off Ronan who’s commissioned to get the Power Stone. The team is able to use the Power Stone to overthrow Ronan and hand over the stone to the Nova Corp. Quill initially promises the Power Stone to Yondu but tricks him in the end because he feels it will be safer in the hands of the Nova Corp.
This film is about Quill’s Daddy Issues. We learn that a Celestial being called Ego plans on terraforming countless planets to extend his own consciousness. He’s been going around impregnating women from various worlds to give birth to an offspring who would hopefully be able to wield the celestial powers. He’s also planted seedlings on each of the planets, but the terraformation can be initiated only by two celestials. Ego had hired Yondu to fetch the various offsprings to check if they could access the celestial powers. Given that none of them could do so, he’s been killing them off. One such planet is Earth, and one such offspring is Quill. Yondu realizes Ego’s plan and saves Quill by not delivering him.
Long story short, Quill displays the ability to access the celestial power, bonds with his dad, realizes his dad is evil and resulted in his mother’s death, fights his dad with the help of the other Guardians of the Galaxy, and kills Ego. Yondu sacrifices himself to protect Quill who realizes that his real dad was indeed Yondu. Gamora and Nebula fight as usual but make peace in the end. Nebula vows to kill Thanos and sets off on her own path. Ego’s empath, Mantis, joins the Guardians as they set out in search of new adventures.
The Avengers retrieve the Sceptre (Mind Stone) from Baron Wolfgang von Strucker. Tony and Bruce use the Mind Stone to develop an A.I driven program called Ultron which is a planned means for global defense. Ultron goes rogue and tries to destroy J.A.R.V.I.S and infiltrates Tony’s robots. Ultron believes that humans need to be eradicated for the protection of the planet. He escapes with the Sceptre and heads to Strucker’s headquarters and builds himself a new body. Ultron meets Peter and Wanda (the mutants that Strucker created using the Scepter) and takes them on to his side by feeding them stories about how Tony Stark’s weapons killed their parents.
The Avengers attack Ultron but have their asses handed to them by Wanda’s hallucinations and are forced to retreat. Ultron meets with Ulysses Klaue, an arms dealer who has access to Vibranium from a place called Wakanda. Ultron forges a new body which is part-synthetic, part-Vibraniam and is powered by the Mind Stone. Just as Ultron uploads himself into this new body, Wanda reads his intentions and realizes that Ultron plans for human extinction. She helps the Avengers procure the synthetic body. Tony finds J.A.R.V.I.S who was in hiding within the Internet and secretly uploads him into the body. Thus is born Vision. Ultron uses all the Vibranium to lift up an entire city and plans to drop it causing a global effect like a meteorite would and eradicate everything but metal (robots). Long story short, the Avengers with the help of Peter, Wanda and Vision, stop Ultron. Hulk, not wanting to endanger people of Earth, uses Ultron’s jet and takes off someplace unknown (he’ll be back in Ragnarok).
Age Of Ultron: Post Credit Scene
Thanos wears the Infinity Gauntlet and decides that he’s going to personally collect each of the Infinity Stones and take matters into his own hands. Thanos will return in Infinity War.

Hank Pym is a scientist who’s the inventor of the Pym Particle – the thing that can alter the size of objects. He resigns from S.H.I.E.L.D because he doesn’t want it falling into the wrong hands. Hank builds the Ant-Man suit which allows him to shrink down to the size of an ant but gain strength in inverse proportion. Basically the smaller you get, the more powerful you become. He also devises a way to mentally communicate with ants. Hank’s wife, Janet, used to operate using the Wasp suit. In one of their missions, Hank and Janet are trying to disarm a nuclear missile which they can’t get inside. Janet decides to enter the rocket by shrinking down to subatomic size and gets lost in subatomic space.

In the present day, an evil man by the name of Darren Cross is building a replica of the Ant-Man suit, called the Yellow Jacket, and wants to sell it to Hydra. Long story short, Hank and his daughter, Hope, recruit a dude named Scott who dawns the suit to become Ant-Man and stops Cross. Ant-Man goes into the subatomic state to sabotage Cross’ suit and kills him. However, unlike Janet, he’s able to use the enlarger to get himself back to his actual size.


Hank gifts Hope with an advanced version of the Wasp suit (formerly her mother’s ). During the film, Ant-Man & Falcon, have a small run in and based on that, Falcon tells Captain America that they have a possible member for their team. This bit pertains to Civil War.

Remember Bucky? Captain America’s friend? The Winter Soldier? When he was under the Hydra Mind Control, he was given the assignment to kill Howard Stark and his wife. Bucky kills Tony’s parents. At some point in time after the Winter Soldier movie, Cap gets to know about this but keeps it a secret from Tony. In the current day, the UN feels that the Avengers have become way too powerful and they need to be “governed”. That the events that involve the Avengers cause way too many casualties and deaths. Tony is ridden with guilt and agrees to sign up with this. Natasha, Vision, and Rhodes are with Tony whereas Captain America, Falcon, Hawk-Eye, and Wanda are against it.

Enter Zemo, a guy who has lost his family in the Ultron incident. He wants revenge and understands that there is no point in fighting the Avengers. Instead, he gets his hands on the information that Bucky assassinated Tony’s parents and plans to use this to turn Iron Man against Cap. Zemo tracks down the document that contains the trigger words to activate Bucky’s brainwashing. We are then introduced to T’Challa who appears with his father, T’Chaka, king of Wakanda, at the UN signing. Zemo instructs Bucky to bomb this meeting, and he does. T’Chaka is killed. T’Challa (secretly the Black Panther) seeks revenge and joins Team Iron Man. Tony also gets Peter Parker (Spider-Man) to join him. Cap retrieves Bucky who’s temporarily free of the Mind Control. Team Captain America gets Ant-Man to join them. The two sides have a massive showdown at an airport leaving Rhodes with a crushed leg. Team Captain America are arrested except for Cap and Bucky.

Zemo makes the Avengers believe that he’s going to activate all the other Winter Soldiers (who are in cryosleep) in a secret facility. Cap and Bucky get to the facility. Iron-Man realizes that Bucky was framed and also heads to the location. But Zemo has killed off all the Winter Soldiers and plays Tony a video that shows Bucky killing his parents. Enraged, Iron Man attacks and dismembers Bucky’s arm. Cap deactivated the Iron Man suit and saves Bucky. Zemo is successful in breaking up the Avengers and plans to commit suicide. Black Panther, who had secretly tailed Iron Man, gets to know the whole story and forgives Bucky. He also stops Zemo from committing suicide and hands him over to the authorities.


Cap hands Bucky to Black Panther who plans to keep him in cryosleep in Wakanda till they can find a solution to the brainwashing.

In this film, we are shown that a meteorite hit a place in Africa thousands of years ago. This meteorite contained the metal Vibranium (the one Cap’s shield is made from). One warrior eats a heart-shaped herb affected by the metal and gains super-human strength. Thus is formed the kingdom of Wakanda under the leadership of this warrior. Over generations, they use the Vibranium to become highly advanced but remain hidden as a 3rd world nation.

When T’Challa is a young boy, his uncle begins dealing with Ulysses Klaue and supplying him Vibranium; now we know how Klaue provided Ultron with the metal. The uncle wants to empower all the people from Africa across the world with weapons to rise against their oppressors. T’Challa’s father kills his brother and abandons his brother’s child, Erik, to grow up as an orphan. Erik (Killmonger) learns about the real Wakanda from his father’s journals and eventually joins the black-ops. He knows one day he’ll get a shot at the throne and prepares for it.

After the events of Civil War, T’Challa returns to Wakanda to become king. He faces M’Baku in ritualistic combat to the death and defeats him but doesn’t kill him. Erik initially appears to be working with Klaue. A CIA agent, Everett, gets involved and is severely wounded while trying to arrest Klaue. T’Challa decides to take Everett back to Wakanda to save his life. Erik kills Klaue, shows up in Wakanda, and announces who he is. He challenges T’Challa and defeats him, throws him over a waterfall, and becomes king. He also consumes the herb to turn super-powered. Erik picks up where his father left off and commissions jets to fly out Vibranium to dealers in America. T’Challa is saved by M’Baku as a repayment. T’Challa’s family revive him by giving him the last of the heart-shaped-herb. We have a final showdown between the Black Panther and Erik where Erik is killed. CIA agent, Everett, remote pilots a jet and takes down the planes carrying the Vibranium. After this, T’Challa announces at the UN the truth about Wakanda.


T’Challa’s sister, Shuri, is working on getting Bucky free of his brainwashing.

After the Chitauri’s invasion in Avengers, a man named Toomes is hired to clear the city. But Tony’s company takes over the operation, and Toomes is left without a job. He uses the Chitauri tech to build new weapons and a suit for himself; Toomes is the Vulture. After the fight at the airport in Civil War, Peter resumes school but focuses on crime-fighting with his new Spider-Suit from Tony.

Peter is reckless and takes on the Vulture endangering himself and civilians. Tony takes away the Spider-Suit. Eventually, Spider-Man and Vulture learn of each other’s true identities. Peter dawns his plain-old Spider-Man costume and goes after Vulture who plans on stealing from a plane transporting weapons from the Avenger Tower. Spider-Man defeats Vulture and saves Toomes from the unstable Vulture-Suit. Toomes is arrested, and Peter declines the offer to become a full-time Avenger.


An inmate approaches Toomes believing he knows the identity of Spider-Man. But Toomes denies this to protect Peter who saved his life.

Doctor Stephan Strange is an arrogant neurosurgeon whose hands get damaged in a car accident. Unable to perform any operations Dr. Strange begins searching various options to get better. He stumbles upon a paraplegic who mysteriously regained the use of his legs. This leads him to Nepal where he meets the Ancient One (an aged sorcerer) and Mordo (a fellow sorcerer). Dr. Strange learns that sorcerer Kaecilius and his men stole some ancient mystical text to open a portal to the Dark Dimension.

Dr. Strange trains under the Ancient One and learns quickly. He also learns how to use the Eye Of Agamotto (Time Stone) to bend time. In a fight against Kaecilius, the Ancient One gets fatally wounded and dies. Dr. Strange, Mordo and Wong (the keeper of the books) are left to stop Kaecilius by themselves. Dr. Strange enters the Dark Dimension to face Dormammu (the ruler) and creates a time loop around himself. Dormammu repeatedly kills Dr. Strange only to realize he’s stuck in an endless loop. He agrees to leave Earth and take Kaecilius and his men with him. The Earth is safe.


Dr. Strange has a chat with Thor who states that he and Loki are on Earth looking for their father, Odin. Dr. Strange agrees to help. Mordo walks up to the paraplegic man and steals his power claiming that the world has too many sorcerers.

Because of Scott using the Ant-Man suit to team up with Captain America in the Civil War movie, Scott is placed under house arrest. Remember Ant-Man goes into subatomic space in the first movie? Because of that he gets into a quantum entanglement with Janet and can see her memories. Scott reaches out to Hank and Hope telling them about his visions. They confirm that Janet is alive and plan to go into the subatomic space to retrieve her.

We’re introduced to Ava Starr, who is the daughter of Hank’s old partner. During an experiment that goes wrong, Ava’s parents are killed, and she’s left in an unstable ghost state. Bill Foster, yet another old partner of Hank, has been helping Ava and plans to draw on Janet’s energy to stabilize her. Hank believes this might kill Janet and this leads to a feud. In the end, Hank is able to retrieve Janet from the subatomic space. She uses her energy to stabilize Ava. Scott sneaks back into his home just in time and is released from his house arrest.


In the flow of the films, this scene pertains to the event from Infinity War. We’ll get back to this later.

The film begins with Surtur, the fire demon, who has captured Thor. Thor learns about Odin not being on Asgard and the prophecy of Ragnarok that will allow Surtur to destroy Asgard. Thor steals Surtur’s crown, the source of his power, and returns to Asgard. He exposes Loki who has been posing as Odin and takes him to Earth to look for the real Odin. With the help of Dr. Strange, they find Odin in Norway. Odin explains to them that he’s dying and his death will free their sister, Hela, the Goddess of death, who he has kept imprisoned. As promised, Odin dies, Hela emerges and destroys Thor’s hammer. Loki and Thor try to get back to Asgard using the Bifröst, but they are interrupted by Hela who throws them into outer space and the two of them land on the planet Sakaar.

While Loki somehow happens to make friends with the Grandmaster (ruler of Sakaar), Thor is taken prisoner by a slave trader and is sold as a Gladiator. Now, remember Hulk takes the jet and leaves Earth after beating up Ultron? He happened to wander into Sakaar and has not turned back into Bruce ever since. Thor meets Hulk on the battlefield but is subdued because of an inhibitor chip on his neck. The slave trader, 142, happens to be an ex-member of the Valkyrior, who once battled Hela. Thor teams up with 142, and Hulk and heads to Asgard to take on Hela. He realizes that she’s way too powerful and asks Loki to fetch Surtur’s crown. Loki gets the crown but also steals the Tesseract (Space-Stone) from the vault. Surtur is reborn and fulfills the prophecy of Ragnarok and destroys Asgard while killing Hela.


The remaining survivors of Asgard onboard a spaceship and head to Earth but are intercepted by Thanos.

Thanos is a mighty Titan who has a simple solution to over-population – randomly kill off half the universe so the survivors will have a better chance of .. well, surviving. For this, he needs to collect all six infinity stones, put it on his infinity gauntlet, and snap his fingers.

Before the film begins, Thanos has already gotten the Power Stone from the Nova Corps in Xandar. He beats up Thor, Hulk and kills Loki and takes out the Space Stone from Tesseract. Heimdal, the keeper of the Bifröst, teleports Hulk to Earth before getting killed. Hulk transforms back to Bruce and is unable to go back to being Hulk. Bruce runs into and warns Dr. Strange who contacts Tony.

Thanos’ henchmen land up on Earth to get the Time Stone. The battle leads to Dr. Strange, Iron-Man and Spider-Man to get on the henchmen’s Space Ship. Bruce contacts Captain America. Wanda and Vision are attacked by another set of henchmen. Cap, Natasha, and Falcon come to their aid. They head to Wakanda to figure a way to separate the Mind Stone from Vision’s head.

The Guardians rescue Thor who tells them that Thanos will head to Knowhere to get the Reality Stone from the Collector. Groot, Rocket and Thor head to Nidavellir to get a new Axe forged from a giant dwarf.

Quill, Drax, Gamora and Mantis head to Knowhere only to realize that Thanos has already taken the Reality Stone. He also kidnaps Gamora and he has already captured Nebula. To save Nebula from torture, Gamora reveals the location of the Soul Stone. Thanos and Gamora head to Vormir, where the Soul Stone is, and meet with Red Skull (remember the guy who got sucked in through a wormhole in Captain America?). The Soul Stone needs a sacrifice, and Thanos kills Gamora to procure it.

Nebula escapes and teams with the remaining Guardians and heads to Titan. Here, Nebula, Mantis, Drax, Spider-Man, Iron-Man, and Dr.Strange try to get Thano’s gauntlet off. But Quill interferes after learning that Gamora is dead. As a result, Thanos defeats everyone and Dr. Strange hands over the Time Stone in exchange for Iron-Man’s life.

At Wakanda, Black Panther and friends, Bucky, Captain America, Rhodes, Natasha, Bruce, Falcon, and Wanda fight off Thanos’ henchmen. Shuri tries to separate the Mind Stone from Vision but is unable to. Groot, Rocket, and Thor (with his new Axe) arrive at Wakanda to help. Thanos finally arrives and beats everyone up. Wanda destroys the Mind Stone and kills Vision. But Thanos uses the Time Stone to reverse time and rips the Mind Stone out of Vision. Thor comes landing his Axe into Thanos’ chest, but Thanos snaps his gauntleted fingers. As promised, half the population of the universe is instantly killed.

On Titan, Iron-Man and Nebula are left alive while Quill, Drax, Mantis, Spider-Man and Dr. Strange die. And in Wakanda, Bruce, Rhodes, Rocket, Cap, Natasha, Thor, and a few Wakandans remain alive while Blank Panther, Bucky, Groot, Wanda, and Falcon die.

Infinity War: Post Credit Scene
We are shown Nick Fury, and Maria Hill die, but Nick uses his pager-on-steroids just in time to warn Captain Marvel. Coming back to the Ant-Man and the Wasp’s post-credit scene, we’re shown that Hank, Janet, and Hope die while Scott is left alive. And coming back to Captain Marvel’s post-credit scene, she lands up on Earth asking for Nick Fury.